Paige Brinks
CS 342
Guide 02
02/06/2017

1. Chapter 5 (focus primarily on Sections 5.1–5.2)

	a. 	Who invented the relational data model? When and where did they do their work?
		The relational data model was first introdiced by Ted Codd of IBM Research in 1970.

	b.	Explain the following terms:
		i.	relation
			A set of tuples.
		ii.	attribute
			The name of a role played by some domain in a relation schema. Portrayed as a comlumn header in the table
		iii. domain
			A set of of atomic (indivisible) values. 
		iv.	n-tuple
			An ordered list of n related data values, where each value is an element of the domain of that attribute. Each tuple corresponds to a row in the table.
		v.	NULL value
			Represent attributes whose values are unknown or do not exist for some individual tuple.
		vi.	primary, foreign, candidate and super keys
			Primary key - attribute or combination of attributes that uniquely identifies a row or record in a relation.
			Foreign key - attribute or combination of attributes whose value match a foreign primary key in another relation.
			Candidate key - The fields or combination of fields that are not used as the primary key.
			Super key - combination of attributes that can be uniquely used to identify a databse record. 
		vii.	referenced and referencing records
			If record R1 has attributes with the same domain as record R2's primary key attributes, then R1 is the referencing relation adn R2 is the referenced relation.
	c.	Are tuples in a relation ordered? How about attribute values in a tuple? Explain why or why not.
		Tuples in a relation are not ordered. This is because a relation attempts to represent facts at a logical or abstract level. An n-tuple is an ordered list of n values. However, at a more abstract level, the order of attributes and their values is not that important as long as the correspondence between attributes and values is maintained. 

	d.	Can attributes have multiple values in a single n-tuple? Why or why not?
		No, each value in a tuple is atomic.

2.	Chapter 6 (focus primarily on Sections 6.1–6.2 & 6.4) — Make sure that you know how to:
	a.	Create tables with specified constraints, including primary/foreign key, not-null, domain and value-check constraints.
	b.	Use the DML commands: INSERT, DELETE and UPDATE.
	c.	Distinguish the ON DELETE actions: SET NULL; CASCADE.
