Paige Brinks
CS 342
Guide 01
02/01/2017

Work through the following materials, recording answers to the 
questions so that you can bring them to class and submit them for review.

Chapter 1

a. 	Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems 
	and information systems.
	- Data are known facts that can be recorded and that have implicit meaning.
	- A database is a collection of related data. A database has some source
	from which data is derived, some degree of interaction with events in 
	the real world, and an audience that is actively interested in its 
	contents. Actions can be made which alter the data, and the database 
	must be updated immediately, in order to keep it accurate.
	- A DBMS is a computerized system that enables users to create and
	maintain a database. A DBMS is a general purpose software system that 
	facilitates the process of defining, constructing, manipulating, and 
	sharing databases among various users and applications.
	- The database and DBMS together are a database system.
	- Information systems are computer systems that support end users, 
	giving them access to the information. For a large number of 
	information systems, the data is held in databases and access 
	is via database management systems. 
	
	
b.	Compare and contrast database systems with the following,using 
	the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.
	-	data structures and algorithms
		■ Users can define operations as part of the definition for both, but 
		databases have self-describing data (schemata), and a separation of data
		from programs. Databases have multiple views which allows different
		users to view different data.
	-	traditional file systems
		■ In traditional file processing each user defines and implements 
		the files needed for a specific software application as part of
		programming the application. This creates a lot of redundancy in the
		files because multiple files may require some data another file already
		contains, in addition to the new data they are storing. This wastes
		storage space. 
		■ In a database a single repository maintains data that is defined once
		and then accessed by various users repeatedly through queries, transactions,
		and application programs. The main characteristics of the database approach versus the
		file-processing approach are the following:
			- Self-describing nature of a database system
			- Insulation between programs and data, and data abstraction
			- Support of multiple views of the data
			- Sharing of data and multiuser transaction processing
		
	-	Identify the stakeholders of database systems.
		■ Database administrators, database designers, causal end users, 
		naive or parametic end users, sophisticated end users, standalone users,
		system analysts, application programmers. 

Chapter 2

a.	Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type 
	of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
	- Data models provide the necessary means to achieve the correct level
	of data abstraction for a user. Data models are a collection of concepts
	that can be used to describe teh structure of a databse, most also contain
	a set of basic operations for specifying retrievals and updates on the 
	database. 
	- Figure 2.1 is a schema diagram.

b.	Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
	1. The internal level has an internal schema, which describes the physical
	storage structure of the database. The internal schema uses a physical data
	model and describes the complete details of data storage and access paths for
	the database.
	2. The conceptual level has a conceptual schema, which describes the structure
	of the whole database for a community of users. The conceptual schema hides
	the details of physical storage structures and concentrates on describing entities,
	data types, relationships, user operations, and constraints. Usually, a representational
	data model is used to describe the conceptual schema when a
	database system is implemented. This implementation conceptual schema is
	often based on a conceptual schema design in a high-level data model.
	3. The external or view level includes a number of external schemas or user
	views. Each external schema describes the part of the database that a particular
	user group is interested in and hides the rest of the database from that
	user group. As in the previous level, each external schema is typically implemented
	using a representational data model, possibly based on an external
	schema design in a high-level conceptual data model.
	- The three-schema architecture is a convenient tool with which the user can visualize
	the schema levels in a database system.

c.	Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.
	- In a two-tier architecture the software is distrubeted over two systems: he client
	and the server. Advantages of this are simplicity and seamless compatibility
	with existing systems. 
	- Many Web appls use the three-tier architecture, which adds an intermediate layer
	layer between the client and the database server, called the application or Web 
	server. This server plays an intermediary role by running application 
	programs and storing business rules (procedures or constraints)
	that are used to access data from the database server. It can also improve
	database security by checking a client’s credentials before forwarding a request to
	the database server.


