Paige Brinks
cs 342
guide 08
3/27/2017

1.	Read Sections 10.1, 10.4.1 & 26.1.1–2:

	a.	Name the three basic approaches to database programming.
		1) Embedding database commands in a general-purpose programming language
		2) Using a library of database functions or classes
		3) Designing a brand new language

	b.	Explain the concepts of:

		i.	impedance mismatch - refers to problems that occur because of differences between the database model and the programming language model.

		ii.	stored procedures - procedures or functions that are stored and executed by the DBMS at the database server.

		iii. triggers - a technique for specifying certain types of active rules. Oracle automatically executes a trigger when a specified event takes place, which may be in the form of a system event or a DML statement being issued against the table

2.	Read Server-Side Programming: PL/SQL and Java.. Focus on server-side programming, PL/SQL and triggers; skip the section on “Overview of Java in Oracle Database”.

	a.	Compare and contrast:

		i.	procedural vs non-procedural languages.
			- procedural language: most statement execution depends on previous or subsequent statements and on control structures.
			- non-procedural language: the set of data to be operated on is specified, but not the operations to be performed or the manner in whuch they are to be carried out.

		ii.	client-side vs server-side database programming.
			- client-side programming is used to embed SQL statements in applications written in procedural languages. 
			- Server-side programming is used to develop data logic that resides in the database.

	b.	Explain why one would want to do server-side programming using PL/SQL.
		- PL/SQL provides the following advantages:
			- improved performance
			- memory allocation
			- improved productivity
			- integrity
			- security with definer's rights procedures
			- inherited priviledges and schema context with invoker's rights procedures
		
	c.	For each of the following code segments, identify the type of the database object and explain what it does.

		CREATE PROCEDURE limited_count (limit IN integer) AS
		BEGIN
		  FOR i IN 1..limit LOOP
			  dbms_output.put_line(i);
		  END LOOP;
		END;
		
		- this is a stored procedure, which outputs a count starting at 1 until it reaches the number inputted as the parameter
		 

		BEGIN
		  dbms_output.put_line('Hello, PL/SQL!');
		END;
		 
		 - this is an anonymous block, which outputs 'Hello, PL/SQL!' once

		CREATE TRIGGER log_trigger
		  BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE OF lastName ON Person
		  FOR each row
		BEGIN
		  dbms_output.put_line('Hello, name change!');
		END;
		
		- this is a row trigger which outputs 'Hello, name change!' every time lastName is updated in the Person relation